# Hint 

Here are some ideas of successful past projects students have done:

### Plate reader output

A student was using a plate reader that generated .csv files. The student needed to trip out the header information and remove special characters from each file before they could use them for downstream processing in R. This script took the .csv file, removed the header files, searched and removed the special characters, and saved the data in a new clean file. The program was written to accept and process multiple .csv files.

The script created a report to tell the user how many files were processed, the old names of the files, and the new names of the files. Some information was pulled out of the platereader .csv header (like the date) and also reported.

### Earthquake entries

A student gathered publicly available earthquake data from a repository and wrote a script that would select for earthquakes over a certain magnitude and within certain states. The script generated a report of the earthquake entries that met those characteristics. The report selected only certain types of information to output.

### The microRNA scanner

A past student worked in a lab where they studied microRNAs (miRNAs) in C. elegans. They made a script to extract miRNA entries from the C. elegans .gtf file. The script generated a smaller .gtf file and a .bed file

- Input - C. elegans .gtf file
- Output - smaller .gtf file with just miRNAs; - also made a .bed file

The script created a report of the number of miRNAs collected. It also reported the input and output file names.

### GTF translater

The UCSC genome browser writes chromosome names like so:

`chrI, chrII, chrIII, etc.`

Whereas the ENSEMBL database writes chromosome names like so:

`chromosome1, chromosome2, chromosome3, etc.`

A student wrote a script to convert gtf files from UCSC chromosome names to ENSEMBL

- Input - .gtf files in UCSC format
- Output - .gtf files in ENSEMBL format

As a bonus, they made the script so it could loop over many .gtf files at once.

### Identifying all the oxygens within water in a protein structure file

A past student worked on protein structures (.pdb files). They wrote a script to pull out all the single line entries for Oxygen atoms that appear in water molecules from the file.

- Input .pdb file
- Output - list of oxygen atoms within water and their X,Y,Z coordinates. .txt file

The script reported the number of Oxygen atoms removed, the name of the input file and the name of the output file.

### Organizing BLAST searches

A student projected they will need to do many blast searches. They were interested in only hits that occurred within a specific group of insects. They wrote a really complex script that took as input a BLAST output text file and selected only entries from a long list of insect species.

### Re-naming files

A student realized they will need to re-name many files generated by an instrument. They wrote a script with a few conditionals in it. It stripped out spaces from the file names. It re-named the files to new names based on the original names. It created a report of the old filename and new filename of each file processed.

### FASTA files -- Warning -- can be trickier than expected

Some students have wanted to use fasta files in their scripts. For example, they wanted to develop their own search function to identify different 6-base sequences within the file. This project can be more challenging than it sounds because it requires an “unwrap” function for the fasta files. That is, if there are return characters within the fasta file, the grep function cannot identify 6-base hits that wrap around the carriage return.

Note - if you do want to do something like this, we have included the fasta un-wrapping code here: [Linux Tips and Tricks](Tips_and_Tricks.md)

Note - This is an example of a type of script that is way easier to write using Python.

### Running lab-generated programs - challenging

A student worked in a lab where the other researchers had already made several pieces of software that could be executed using Linux commands. The student built a pipeline that would automate the execution of that software and organize any output files that were generated. (This was beyond the scope of the course).

### SQLITE - challenging

A student had past experience with SQLITE and their lab had built several large databases. The student wrote a script to execute and automatically generate reports on their SQLITE searches. (This was beyond the scope of the course)
